Shirley W. I. Siu , she received a full-funded scholarship from the Max-Planck Institute for Informatics to study in Germany and completed a Master of Science in Computational Molecular Biology. She received her Ph.D. in natural sciences from Saarland University in Germany in 2010, and worked as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Nuremberg in Erlangen, Germany for the next year. Since 2012, she has been an assistant professor in the Department of Computer and Information Science at the University of Macau. Her research focuses on computer-aided drug design, including biomolecular simulation, cheminformatics and machine learning. She has written/co-authored more than 60 peer-reviewed journal papers and conference papers. According to Google Scholar statistics, her papers are cited more than 1,400 times, and the author's H index is 15. She is the principal investigator (PI) of the Computational Biology Laboratory (CBBIO) of the University of Macau. She has successfully supervised more than 40 students, including PhD, master, and bachelor, and participated in supervising doctoral students from the Faculty of Chinese Medicine and Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Macau. Her research has received various funding from the Macau government and the university, totaling MOP 4.5 million. 

She is the member of the Asian Association for Computer-Aided Drug Design (CADD-Asia) society and Macau Computational Pharmacy Society. She has also served as the program committee member for many international bioinformatics and biomedical conferences.

